TW-947 Publishing APIs to API Network (#4605)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/public-api-network/best-practices/best-practices.md

---
title: "Public API Network best practices"
updated: 2023-02-01
---

> ## Crafting Your Public Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Crafting your public Postman profile
```

> Please refere to the doucmentation for [Public Profiles](https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/postman-profile/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about your Postman profile, see [Customizing your Postman profile](/docs/getting-started/postman-profile/)
```

Reviewer: Is the best practice to update their Postman profile? I'm asking because I think it would help to clarify why this is  a best practice.

Author: Yes it is a best practice to update their Postman profile, so people can see them as the legitimate company/organization on the API Network.

Reviewer: This is now updated.

> ## Organizing Public Workspaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Organizing public workspaces
```

Workspaces are a grouping of schemas, collections, variables, tests, and more that describe and interact with your APIs. Collections are usually where developers are first to be drawn to, to interact with you API.

> ### Creating Collection Folders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating collection folders
```

> Collections can divide requests into folders by domain, team, service, or use case.

Reviewer: What is the best practice in this section? I'm asking because it seems like we're providing definitions for "workspaces" and "collections".

Reviewer: This is now updated.

## Writing Detailed Documentation

> Write detailed [documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write detailed [documentation](/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request.
```

> Write detailed [documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request.
> Standardize the language around your workspace and its APIs will create a fluid experience for a developer learning how to interact with your systems.Use meaningful names for requests , collections, and folders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write detailed [documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request. Standardize the language in your workspace and its APIs to create a fluid experience for developers learning how to interact with your systems. Use meaningful names for requests, collections, and folders.
```

> Write detailed [documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request.
> Standardize the language around your workspace and its APIs will create a fluid experience for a developer learning how to interact with your systems.Use meaningful names for requests , collections, and folders
> 
> Name requests by the actions developers expect. Reuse variables through out your collection and keep their names clear and concise to the values they hold.
> 
> Check how good your documentation is using the [Documentation Linter](https://www.postman.com/postman/workspace/published-postman-templates/documentation/1559645-4b520b0d-cf53-41be-8d24-0e0136416091)
> 
> When properly defined, Postman collections provide a rich way to define shareable, portable, and embeddable documentation for APIs, moving API documentation out of the portal and making it available anywhere, designed to keep up with the pace of change across enterprise operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write detailed [documentation](/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/) for each collection and request to help developers quickly learn how to consume your APIs. The following best practices will help you write clear and concise documentation:

* Standardize the language in your workspace and its APIs.

* Use meaningful names for requests, collections, and folders. Use names that developers would expect.

* Reuse variables throughout your collection. Use variable names that are meaningful and set a clear expectation for their related values.

To learn more about writing detailed documentation, see [The Good Documentation Checklist](https://www.postman.com/postman/workspace/published-postman-templates/documentation/1559645-4b520b0d-cf53-41be-8d24-0e0136416091).
```

> ### Define and Describe Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Define and describe variables
```

> Next to every variable you can write documentation around what the expected value of this variable is and/or examples of its values.
> Variables can be defined independently and stored within environments, but then applied across collections, providing variables that can be used for authentication, pagination, and other common aspects of working with APIs. Variables may define a state across multiple APIs and collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your [variables](/docs/sending-requests/variables/, you can write documentation describing the expected value and provide example values. Variables can be defined independently or stored within environments, and then applied across collections, enabling you to use variables for authentication, pagination, and other aspects of working with APIs. Variables can also define a state across multiple APIs and collections.
```

> ### Write Descriptions for Folders and Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Write descriptions for folders and requests
```

> Folders help logical seperate requests within a collection for organizing and sequencing API requests for browsing by humans, but also automating with a runner or as part of a CI/CD pipeline, helping organize reference API collections, choreograph automation, and orchestrations across many different APIs as part of a single collection.
> 
> At the Collection or folder-level would be a good place to mention how to sign up or get started with your API. Be sure to use keywords in all your documentation for good discoverability on the internet and on the Public API Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At either the collection or folder level, Postman recommends writing detailed [descriptions](/docs/publishing-your-api/authoring-your-documentation/#adding-descriptions-to-your-documentation) that explain how to sign up for and get started with your API. You can use keywords in your descriptions to increase your API's discovery in organic search results and Postman search results. 

To learn more about collections and folders, see [Using collections](/docs/collections/using-collections/).
```

> ## Add Examples to Requests

Reviewer: Also, it seems like this header is still related to the "Writing detailed documentation" H2 mentioned earlier on this page. This "Add examples to requests" header might be better as an H3.

> Examples of the API request, responses, and messages used across API operations helps provide a versioned, evolvable, and reusable set of example and synthetic data that can make documentation richer and testing more relevant to actual business needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save examples of your API's [requests, responses, and messages](/docs/sending-requests/examples/) to [use examples in your documentation](/docs/sending-requests/examples/#using-examples-in-documentation). This enables developers to test your API using example data.
```

### Detail Authorization

> Create documentation around how to authorize with your API. You can mention this in the documentation overview or in it’s own folder if you have several different API request workflows or a more complicated authorization schema.

Reviewer: In the second sentence, which of the following are we saying?

`A.` **IF** you have several different API request workflows or a more complicated authorization schema, **THEN** you can mention this in the documentation overview or in its own folder.
`B.` You can mention this in the documentation overview. **IF** you have several different API request workflows or a more complicated authorization schema, **THEN** you can mention this in its own folder.

Also, can you please clarify what we mean by the "documentation overview"? I'm wondering if we're referring to the beginning of the documentation, the Overview page for a Postman entity, or something else. Thanks!

Author: We are saying (A). 
The documentation overview would either be the workspace description or the collection description.

Reviewer: This is now updated.

## Creating Multiple Environments for Different Use Cases

> You can [create environments](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/managing-environments/#creating-environments) for different use cases and add them to your Public Workspace. This helps users understand what they need for what they want to use with your APIs.

Reviewer: Can you please clarify why creating multiple environments with different use cases is a best practice? Thanks!

Author: Creating environments for testing, production, and other examples of what developers need to interact with their services.

Reviewer: This is now updated.

> ## Protecting Sensitive Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Protecting sensitive data
```

> When creating and sharing environment variables make sure you leave examples of values in the Initial value which gets synced to the Public Workspace. Current value is where you can add values you are using and they do not sync to the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [creating and sharing environment variables](/docs/sending-requests/managing-environments/#adding-environment-variables), specify example values as the Initial value for the variable. Don't add sensitive data as the Initial value because it is shared with users who can access the environment. The Current value is used in your local instance of Postman, and is never synced to your account or shared with your team unless you choose to persist it.
```

> ## Creating API Cookbooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating API cookbooks
```

Reviewer: Can you please clarify what we mean by "API cookbook"? Thanks!

Author: We are still trying to define ourselves. But a collection of API calls like "recipes" in a cookbook. To showcase how to interact with their services, chain their APIs with other services, or some cool use case examples they'd like to show off.
